---
layout: post
title: TryHackMe - Benign
date: 2023-01-26 08:08:00 -500
categories: [TryHackMe]
tags: [splunk]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
Today we will be exploring TryHackMe's Benign room. This challenge is marked as medium in difficulty and involves a short investigation using Splunk as our SIEM. I found the process mostly straight forward. This write-up has been sanitized per TryHackMe's guidelines on answers, flags, and hashes.

Throughout this challenge, let's make sure that we are using the correct index `index="win_eventlogs"` and apply "All time" for time range in the search box.

## Q1: How many logs are ingested from the month of March?
All we have to do is specify only the index. With the aforementioned query, we will arrive at our first answer. While the question asks for logs ingested for the month of March, we can see that March is the only month in this dataset. The answer is clearly displayed in bold under the search box on the left.
## Q2: Imposter Alert: There seems to be an imposter account observed in the logs, what is the name of that user?
While completing any of these challenges, I like to manually individually review every field in the "Interesting Fields" pane. Usually, bigger indexes have hundreds or more fields to explore. For this challenge, we have relatively few fields to parse through. The `HostName` and `UserName` fields give us additional information
## Q3: Which user from the HR department was observed to be running scheduled tasks?
## Q4: Which user from the HR department executed a system process (LOLBIN) to download a payload from a file-sharing host?
## Q5: To bypass the security controls, which system process (lolbin) was used to download a payload from the internet?
## Q6: What was the date that this binary was executed by the infected host? format (YYYY-MM-DD)
## Q7: Which third-party site was accessed to download the malicious payload?
## Q8: What is the name of the file that was saved on the host machine from the C2 server during the post-exploitation phase?
## Q9: The suspicious file downloaded from the C2 server contained malicious content with the pattern THM{..........}; what is that pattern?
## Q10: What is the URL that the infected host connected to?


```
index="win_eventlogs"
``` 
