---
layout: post
title: Life Update (November 2023)
date: 2023-11-23 09:08:00 -500
categories: [Career]
tags: [professional-development, life-update]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
img_path: /assets/img/UpdateNov23/
---

# Where have I been?
I ought to explain what I have been up to for the last year. I would like to imagine that someone will come along and be encouraged by some of the notes I have written here. I'm still very much in my early career, and it would be interesting to have a written testament of what I've been up to recently.

I decided to pay for TryHackMe's annual plan, provided at a 20% discount thanks to the Black Friday sale. It'll be my goal to pump a couple hours into the platform on a weekly basis. Platforms like LetsDefend, Hackthebox, BlueTeamLabs, or CyberDefenders are more expensive and require more of a commitment/guilt so you don't feel like you're paying for a service you might not actively use. Besides, I feel like I haven't exhausted the resources on TryHackMe quite yet.  

Before posting more challenge write-ups, I thought that I would write something more personal. I've traditionally shied away from sharing my thoughts online. I'm sure there's a greater extent of writing covering this transformation, but most "blogs" nowadays are SEO-nightmares, the domains of Linkedin coaches, and influencers with any "content" nestled far, far away from the reader. And most of the time, it's entirely unhelpful or self-serving. I believe that's kind of poisoned most people's perceptions (especially mine) of what the online world looks like nowadays. That's been the case for a while now, but I'm sure other wizards felt the same way in the mid 1990s. Since I grew up and was socialized on the cusp of anonymity going slightly out of fashion online, I didn't quite know what to do when integrating my real self online. A good ten/fifteen years ago, you could have a persona online that didn't at all correspond or reference you personally. You could indeed be a person, possibly named in certain communities, albeit different from who you are in real life. I've always been happier lurking online, unnamed and unseen. A bump in someone's viewer count was enough. So it feels a little risky and exciting to put my thoughts out there using a static site generator made flesh by a Github workflow.


# Significant life changes
## Obtained my first IT job
When first applying to jobs, I kept getting screener calls for tier 1 IT support positions starting at $40,000, which is so grossly underpaid for where I currently live in the USA - and that doesn't even include any benefits package. Yuck. But I got lucky after only a month-long job search. 

I found a job that pays fairly well, has a small and flexible team, and puts a healthy number of interesting challenges and projects on my dashboard. I get to have a direct impact on the end-users of several organizations. No being siloed away in a ticket queue! I also have managers that foster growth and professional development. They've been nothing but responsive to my enthusiasm and drive by giving me better and more interesting work. I've yet to find this so-called "burnout" that other people complain about. I'll let you know when I do(!)

Long story short, most of our clients are tech unicorns or VC firms, and pretty much all of them have zero form of on-prem equipment. Their product is hosted in cloud platforms like AWS, Azure, or GCP. The only equipment onsite typically is our networking or access control equipment that hooks into thebuilding's OT.

It's been a great success on my part and I've been very grateful for the opportunities I've been given.

## Got out of a four-year relationship
Okay, okay. Welcome to the real blog post. For clarity, she's the one who left me. There's really not much to say here, but losing your best friend/lover is a great way to stall any professional development outside of work hours. You might be doing things you don't even realize, picking up new hobbies, personally taking time for yourself, but all those AWS Solutions Architect (Associate) courses are indefinitely on hold. I like the idea of building out topologies, having services connected, but I don't really have an interest in categorically naming the Sears catalog of AWS products for the sake of getting a certification that may or may not help me. It's a great way to qualify system-specific knowledge to your current or future employer, but I've found very little transference between the most difficult bits of my CCNA prep and my current position. Maybe I'm undervaluing the attainment of my certifications. I'm happier scripting, learning Linux system architecture, and doing real-world projects. You can lose your enthusiasm for technology and systems pretty when you write/view Anki cards on a daily basis and view several hours of video courses back-to-back while working a 9-5 job.

I will definitely say that this has been a great time to listen to new music. Besides holding a trove of ecclesiastical music, a sizeable chunk of Western music is centered on lost love from the male perspective. So I guess I've got that going for me.


# Going forward 

## Maxims 
- Be reliable and competent. You won't get anywhere by being incompetent. You can only say "whoops" so many times.
- Communicate your interest in different roles/tasks/technologies to management.
- Get close to or emulate the people that you want to be. Become dependable for the people who can elevate you.
- Write out your troubleshooting steps/things you've done so that you can easily reference the work you've completed when you escalate to someone else 
- Manage your time effectively and "timebox" tasks.
- Take the initiative to take short breaks. Besides having a flexible sit-stand setup, I can physically move my body away from stressful work and recognize that the stress doesn't necessarily reside in me.
- Some projects take a couple hours at once, a couple hours over several weeks, or several hours over a month.
- Ask your supervisor/manager what to prioritize when you feel unsure.
- It's much better to be in conversation with everyone, rather than being noncommunicative and siloed away.
- Don't let your work define you or your ability to experience happiness.
- IT is much more of a people-oriented job than people might realize. Doing ticket support in JIRA is more like providing therapy than technical support.

## Career trajectory

I wouldn't mind sticking around in this role for a couple years. It's my intention to get to the role of manager (just don't tell my current bosses). The raises have been sizeable and consistent. It's a general IT support role, but I've had to explain AWS account and IAM roles/functions to a DevOps leads, give network engineering input during buildout, and write shell scripts to speed up small tasks. I've read quite a few stories online of career obsession which end with getting to exhaustion, burnout, breakups, divorce, family separation, suicide, etc. I've decided it's not worth it. Go take your stressful lifestyle elsewhere, I ain't buying it.

In the meantime, I'd like to focus on more scripting and eventually getting around to implementing my homelab environment. I'd like to do something with Vaultwarden, Nextcloud, and Pi-hole. Maybe a small network stack, too. Something with OPNsense. I manage enterprise equipment and systems at work. Why would I bring all of that stress home? 

In reading 10/15-year career retrospectives from software engineers and IT professionals, I've seen a common thread that's something like "don't let your job/position silo you away from the things you'd like to pursue". In other words, don't just do things because you get good at them. It's my goal to spend more time on Linux/scripting/automation as well as security topics, hence my TryHackMe annual subscription to encourage that. I'm actively moving towards more of what I'd like to do.

I wish you all the best, whether you read my post this month or in a year or two. See y'all again real soon.
